>> Speaker 1: So since morning
this is what I was wondering.
Is Mongo dynamic?
>> Scott Moss: Dynamic as in,
like what do you mean?
Give me an example.
>> Speaker 1: So our servers,
they have limited memory,
or they're 1tb long or 5T long.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah.
>> Speaker 1: From the looks of it,
it looks like it's been expanded.
>> Scott Moss: It just goes
until it eats all your stores.
Yeah, you don't have to set.
I mean, it's not like dynamodb where
you're like, you gotta tell me exactly how
much you need, and then I think that's
more of a business decision for them,
right, cuz they charge for that.
Right, but no, Mongo's not like that.
This thing will eat your whole
hard drive if you let it.
But like I said, there's some scientific
stuff behind how they calculate how
much RAM they need, how much stuff they
need, and then what do they allocate for
indexes versus actual data
versus what's actually on disk.
It's actually pretty
smart the way they do it.
But yeah,
if you wanna look more into that,
you can look up the what's
called the WiredTiger engine.
If you Google that you will find days and
weeks worth of information
about how that works.
But yeah,
you can just expand this stuff forever.
You don't have to set limits
when you create your database.
But when you go get a hosted database,
yeah, it's going to be capped, right?
It's like you get a terabyte.
If you want more, you got to pay for
something, right?
Cuz that's just what those machines
that host those databases are capped to.
Yes.
>> Speaker 1: How is consistency achieved
in Mongo, in SQL Server when someone's
performing a write operation, it's just-
>> Scott Moss: It blocks everything.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah, there's a locking
mechanism which goes on, and
nobody can write it unless this
user is done with his writing.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, so
that's like a ACID compliant database.
So the answer to that is
Mongo 4 just came out and
Mongo 5 supports this new thing,
transactions.
So it's the same way you would use
transactions to basically create a queue
to block everything and
get commands and put them in a queue.
And then you run those commands and
then you replay them back.
So you can do that, but
the thing is this is running on Node, so
everything's asynchronous.
So all that it was doing on database,
you have another request that's
coming in that's doing stuff, too.
So it can also happen asynchronously, but
the transactions protect
you on the database level.
So you can still do transactions,
but you gotta go back to think
about why would you need.
If you think about why you need
transactions in the first place,
it's because you have tables
that are all separated and
you need to perform one thing but that one
thing touches like five tables, right?
So you gotta make sure it does this and
then this.
Well, if this messes up, undo this.
Whereas kind of like in Mongo you can
put almost everything you need for
one operation in one schema.
So you don't really have to
think about transactions.
Transactions, that's why they added it so
late cuz it was an afterthought, because
you could just get away without ever
having to use transactions just by
modeling your data with nested objects.
So if you nest your objects and
everything belongs to one model,
then you don't need transactions.
There's only one thing to worry about,
it's not many things.
So that's the way you
have to think about it.
But if you come from a relational
database background,
you start modeling data in Mongo, very
relational, that's actually what I did.
You run into the problem where I
need transactions immediately.
And that's why we were so
glad when they came out with them.
But then after sitting down and
talking to the people at Mongo,
I realized I was just
modeling my data like SQL.
I should have been modeling like Mongo,
and we didn't need transactions any more.
But yeah, they have transactions.
>> Speaker 3: I mean, if you are worried
like about the multiple users using
the same data, same record at the same
time, you may wanna implement something,
maybe to market or
something, I don't know.
>> Scott Moss: You mean if two users were-
>> Speaker 3: Editing the same thing, for
example, like [INAUDIBLE] or
something like that.
>> Scott Moss: If they were
writing at the same time?
>> Speaker 3: Yeah, it was like
they're using the same piece of data.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, so
when you write to the database in Mongo,
it doesn't actually write to the database.
It writes it in memory.
It writes it later, right?
It has a journal log, yeah.
So it doesn't write to disk immediately.
It writes everything in memory.
So it can figure out what's happening
if it's a split second thing and
then it can dedupe it.
So it can figure that stuff out.
If you're writing to the database and
it write into memory, there's
something already in memory that was
operation that already happening on
the same thing, it's just like a replay.
It kind of knows what's happening there.
So you don't have it locked to database
because it's just in the memory,
everything's in the memory until it's not.
And it is like a flush and
then it saves it and then you're good.